h1. Introduction

The CINA project uses the data store server not just for storing data sets, but for registering experiments and samples as well. Folders representing experiments, samples, and data sets are identified by special files in the top level: *experiment.properties*, *sample.properties*, and *dataset.properties* respectively.

The data store server, upon recognizing one of the special files, registers an experiment, a sample, or a data set (_note: data sets not yet implemented_) in the database using the information specified in the properties file, and it also creates a data set containing the contents of the folder and associates this data set to the entity.

h1. Configuration

h3. Data Sets Types

* Add a data set type with the code CINA_EXP_PREP &mdash; this is the data set for preparation information for an experiment
* Add a data set type with code CINA_SAMPLE_PREP &mdash; this is the data set for preparation information for a sample

h3. Sample Types

* Add a sample type with the code CINA_SAMPLE_TYPE &mdash; this is the sample type for all CINA samples

h3. Experiment Types

* Add an experiment type with the code CINA_EXP_TYPE &mdash; this is the experiment type for all CINA experiments

h1. Use

h2. Registering an Experiment

To register an experiment using this mechanism, it is necessary to create an experiment.properties file. This file needs to have three keys: *project.identifier*, *experiment.code-prefix*, and *experiment.owner-email*. Here is an example:
<pre>
	project.identifier = /CINA/CINA1
	experiment.code-prefix = EXP
	experiment.owner-email = no-one@nowhere.ch
</pre>

h2. Register a Sample

When an experiment has been registered this way, it will send an email to the experiment owner with a properties file that can be used to register samples. Use this properties file to register samples.

h2. Register a Data Set

This not yet implemented. 